Update plugin howto (#5000)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/howto/plugin_codes.rst

.. code-block:: python

>     from aiida.common import datastructures

Reviewer: This seems to be the only block referencing either calculations.py or parser.py that doesn't have a literalinclude, so maybe I can even add it for this as well?

>     from aiida.common import datastructures

Author: up to you

    @classmethod
    def define(cls, spec):
        ...
        spec.inputs['metadata']['options']['parser_name'].default = 'diff'

> Note that the default is not set to the |Parser| class itself, but the *entry point string* under which the parser class is registered.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the default is not set to the |Parser| class itself, but to the *entry point string* under which the parser class is registered.
```

> How to register a parser class through an entry point is explained in :ref:`registering plugins <how-to:plugins-develop>`.

Author: ```suggestion
We will register the entry point for the parser in a bit.
```

In order to inform AiiDA about a failed calculation, simply return from the ``parse`` method the exit code that corresponds to the detected issue.
Here is a more complete version of the example |Parser| presented in the previous section:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../aiida/parsers/plugins/diff/diff_parser.py
    :language: python
    :pyobject: DiffParser.parse

This simple check makes sure that the expected output file ``diff.patch`` is among the files retrieved from the computer where the calculation was run.

> Production plugins will often check further aspects of the output (e.g. the standard error, the output file, etc.) to detect whether the code failed and return a corresponding exit code.

Author: ```suggestion
Production plugins will often scan further aspects of the output (e.g. the standard error, the output file, etc.) for any issues that may indicate a problem with the calculation and return a corresponding exit code.
```

        from setuptools import setup

        setup(
            name='aiida-diff',
            packages=['aiida_diff'],
            entry_points={
                'aiida.calculations': ["diff = aiida_diff.calculations:DiffCalculation"],
                'aiida.parsers': ["diff = aiida_diff.parsers:DiffParser"],
            }
        )

    .. note::
        Strictly speaking, ``aiida-diff`` is the name of the *distribution*, while ``aiida_diff`` is the name of the *package*.
        The aiida-core documentation uses the term *package* a bit more loosely.

>  * Install your new ``aiida-diff`` plugin package.

Author: ```suggestion
 * Install your new ``aiida-diff`` plugin package.
 
   .. code-block:: console
   
       $ pip install aiida_diff
       $ reentry scan
```

        $ verdi computer setup -L localhost -H localhost -T local -S direct -w `echo $PWD/work` -n
        $ verdi computer configure local localhost --safe-interval 5 -n

 *  Create the input files for our calculation

    .. code-block:: console

        $ echo "File with content\ncontent1" > file1.txt
        $ echo "File with content\ncontent2" > file2.txt
        $ mkdir input_files
        $ mv file1.txt file2.txt input_files

 * Write a ``launch.py`` script:

    .. code-block:: python

        from aiida import orm, engine
        from aiida.common.exceptions import NotExistent

>         from os import path

Author: DataFactory missing?

Maybe better to also add this as a separate "snippet" to get the benefit of linting

Author: ```suggestion
        import pathlib
```

        
        SinglefileData = DataFactory('singlefile')

>         INPUT_DIR = path.join(path.dirname(path.realpath(__file__)), 'input_files')

Author: ```suggestion
        INPUT_DIR = Path(__file__).resolve().parent / 'input_files'
```

        
        # Create or load code
        computer = orm.load_computer('localhost')
        try:
            code = load_code('diff@localhost')
        except NotExistent:
            # Setting up code via python API (or use "verdi code setup")
            code = orm.Code(label='diff', remote_computer_exec=[computer, '/usr/bin/diff'], input_plugin_name='diff')
        
        # Set up inputs
        builder = code.get_builder()

>         builder.file1 = SinglefileData(file=path.join(INPUT_DIR, 'file1.txt'))

Author: ```suggestion
        builder.file1 = SinglefileData(file= INPUT_DIR / 'file1.txt')
```

>         builder.file2 = SinglefileData(file=path.join(INPUT_DIR, 'file2.txt'))

Author: ```suggestion
        builder.file2 = SinglefileData(file= INPUT_DIR / 'file2.txt')
```

        builder.metadata.description = "Test job submission with the aiida_diff plugin"

>         builder.metadata.options.resources = {'num_machines':1, 'num_mpiprocs_per_machine': 1}

Author: not necessary; this is the default of the plugin
```suggestion
```

    .. code-block:: python

>         Note: in order to submit your calculation to the aiida daemon, do:

Author: ```suggestion
        # Submit calculation to the aiida daemon
```

        from aiida.engine import submit

>         result = engine.submit(DiffCalculation, **builder)

Author: I think the original code is the correct one and this change should be reverted
